# VG-CALF
Code for the paper [VG-CALF: A vision-guided cross-attention and late-fusion network for radiology images in Medical Visual Question Answering](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0925231224015017)

## Abstract
Image and question matching is essential in Medical Visual Question Answering (MVQA) in order to accurately assess the visual-semantic correspondence between an image and a question. However, the recent state-of-the-art methods focus solely on the contrastive learning between an entire image and a question. Though contrastive learning successfully model the global relationship between an image and a question, it is less effective to capture the fine-grained alignments conveyed between image regions and question words. In contrast, large-scale pre-training poses significant drawbacks, including extended training times, handling substantial data volumes, and necessitating high computational power. To address these challenges, we propose the Vision-Guided Cross-Attention based Late Fusion (VG-CALF) network, which integrates image and question features into a unified deep model without relying on pre-training for MVQA tasks. In our proposed approach, we use self-attention to effectively leverage intra-modal relationships within each modality and implement vision-guided cross-attention to emphasize the inter-modal relationships between image regions and question words. By simultaneously considering intra-modal and inter-modal relationships, our proposed method significantly improves the overall performance of MVQA without the need for pre-training on extensive image-question pairs. Experimental results on benchmark datasets, such as, SLAKE and VQA-RAD demonstrate that our proposed approach performs competitively with existing state-of-the-art methods.
